v0.44.0 release notes (#3024)
grafana/k6: release notes/v0.44.0.md

k6 v0.44.0 is here 🎉! This release includes:

- A new experimental webcrypto module.
- A sampling option for the tracing module.
- Support for z/OS Unix.
- A memory usage improvements.
- Bug fixes and UX improvements.

Some highlights from the k6-browser module are:

- `locator.click` is now asynchronous, which is a breaking change.
- `browserContext.addCookies` has now been implemented.
- `browserType.Connect` has been implemented so k6 can now connect to an already running Chrome/Chromium browser instance.

> - Web vitals are natively supported by k6.

Reviewer: Is this ok here?

Author: Just in case for me seems okay :+1:

k6 v0.44.0 is here 🎉! This release includes:

> - A new experimental Web Crypto module.

Author: To be honest, I don't know :shrug: My impression is that `Web Crypto API` is the name of the standard, which doesn't mean that the module should have the same naming as long as we declare somewhere that it's an implementation of the `Web Crypto API`

But postponing the decision to the @oleiade :+1:

> - A new experimental Web Crypto module.

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase the sentence to integrate both information: a new "webcrypto" module, which implements the Web Crypto API specification.

What do you folks think about:

```suggestion
- A new experiment `webcrypto` module implementing (partially) the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification.
```

    ```javascript
    const tails = page.locator("input[value='Bet on tails!']");
    await Promise.all([
      page.waitForNavigation(),
      tails.click(),
    ]);
    ```

- [xk6-browser#817](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/817) We've removed `--no-sandbox` from the default Chrome launch arguments. Now Chrome will launch with a sandbox, which is a more secure way of running the browser. If you are running tests under a `root` user, the browser will no longer launch unless the `--no-sandbox` argument is supplied. You can still pass this flag when launching a new Chrome instance using the `args` parameter on `chromium.launch`:

    ```javascript
    const browser = chromium.launch({
      args: ['no-sandbox'],
    });
    ```

- [xk6-browser#844](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/844) Removed the exported `version` param from the root module. Users should from now on reference the k6 version instead of the browser module version.
- [xk6-browser#838](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/838) Removed first meaningful paint metric. This metric is being deprecated across all the browsers, so we've removed it.

## New features

> ### A new experimental Web Crypto module [#2884](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3007)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### A new experimental Web Crypto API module [#2884](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3007)
```
same

Reviewer 2: Same comment as with the other related comment: if we rephrase, I'd rather rephrase to something along the lines of "A new experimental module implementing the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification"

What do you think?

Author: Sounds good to me, except for placing the link to the headline. I will adjust accordingly :+1:

Author: Please find the changes there https://github.com/grafana/k6/compare/39ffea69ba60d46dff1ae65ac7101404a3d6f64b..76f3211020e2136f9dcf0771b2ef5e1039edb1da

- [#2916](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2916). k6 started to show the actual binary's name in the usage help. Thanks, @ariasmn!
- [#2942](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2942). Reference 'k6 cloud' instead of 'Load Impact' in docs and errors.
- [#2985](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2985). Added support of async functions for `setup` and `handleSummary`.
- [#2901](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2901). Added a warning when the number of time series exceeds 100 000, which could lead to potential out-of-memory issues.
- [#2997](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2997). Added a new exit code (`109`), used on a go panic.
- [xk6-browser#788](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/788) Updated the xk6-browser readme to highlight that it is now a module in k6.
- [xk6-browser#803](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/803) Users are now warned if the `browser.close` method is called more than once.
- [xk6-browser#820](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/820) Added error handling to wildcard selectors, which cleans up the error output in the terminal.

> - [xk6-browser#843](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/843) Removed the build step from github actions. From this release onwards, no new standalone xk6-browser binaries will be built and available from the [releases](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/releases) section. The latest version of the browser module will be available in the k6 binary which can be found [here](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [xk6-browser#843](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/843) Removed the build step from github actions. From this release onwards, no new standalone xk6-browser binaries will be built and available from the [releases](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/releases) section. The latest version of the browser module will be available in the k6 binary which can be found in the [k6 releases](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases) page.
```

- [xk6-browser#848](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/848) Multiple k6 instances can now connect to one browser to run concurrent tests. This update empowers high-concurrency browser testing with multiple VUs and instances. Using the new `browserType.Connect` API, users can now connect to an existing browser instance and execute concurrent tests, which was not possible previously.

## Bug fixes

> - [#2984](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2984). Fixed wrongly assigned HTTP `POST` and `PUT` methods for the `tracing.instrumentHTTP`. Thanks, @marcin-maciej-seweryn!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [#2984](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2984) Fixed wrongly assigned HTTP `POST` and `PUT` methods for the `tracing.instrumentHTTP`. Thanks, @marcin-maciej-seweryn!
```
Same for all the following

Author: Fixed in [8642570](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3024/commits/86425703a9724d53af4231acf0d6f081709410bf)

k6 v0.44.0 is here! 🎉 This release includes:

> - A new experiment `webcrypto` module implementing (partially) the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A new experimental `webcrypto` module implementing (partially) the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification.
```

- A sampling option for the experimental tracing module.
- Memory usage improvements.
- Bug fixes and UX improvements.

> Some highlights from the browser module are:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some highlights from the `experimental/browser` module are:
```

- `locator.click` is now asynchronous, which is a breaking change.
- `browserContext.addCookies` has now been implemented.
- `browserType.Connect` has been implemented so k6 can now connect to an already running Chrome/Chromium browser instance.
- Web vitals are natively supported when working with the browser module.

## Breaking changes

> 

Reviewer 4: I suggest adding the following sentence at the beginning of this section.

```suggestion
The browser module is still in an `experimental` stage, and therefore breaking changes are expected as we are improving the APIs to make them more user-friendly.
```

This module has many breaking changes, which may look "bad" if the reader doesn't know this is expected.

      page.waitForNavigation(),
      tails.click(),
    ]);
    ```

- [browser#817](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/817) We've removed `--no-sandbox` from the default Chrome launch arguments. Now Chrome will launch with a sandbox, which is a more secure way of running the browser. If you are running tests under a `root` user, the browser will no longer launch unless the `--no-sandbox` argument is supplied. You can still pass this flag when launching a new Chrome instance using the `args` parameter on `chromium.launch`:

    ```javascript
    const browser = chromium.launch({
      args: ['no-sandbox'],
    });
    ```

- [browser#844](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/844) Removed the exported `version` param from the root module. Users should from now on reference the k6 version instead of the browser module version.
- [browser#838](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/838) Removed first meaningful paint metric. This metric is being deprecated across all the browsers, so we've removed it.

## New features

### A new experimental module implementing the Web Crypto API specification [#2884](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3007)

> This release includes a new experiment `webcrypto` module implementing (partially) the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification in k6.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This release includes a new experimental `webcrypto` module partially implementing the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification in k6.
```

> This release includes a new experiment `webcrypto` module implementing (partially) the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification in k6.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release includes a new experimental `webcrypto` module implementing (partially) the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification in k6.
```

<details>
<summary> Expand to see an example of the new functionality.</summary>

> An example shows encrypting and decrypting of a "Hello, World!" string using AES-CBC algorithm.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This example shows encrypting and decrypting of a "Hello, World!" string using AES-CBC algorithm.
```

> ### A new experimental module implementing the Web Crypto API specification [#3007](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3007)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### A new `experimental/webcrypto` module implementing the Web Crypto API specification [#3007](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3007)
```

Reviewer 6: If we are going to give it as a module name then let's pretend k6/ as well

Author: @codebien @oleiade what do you think?

(Asking you since there was [another tread](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3024#discussion_r1172364742) about the naming)

Reviewer 3: I'm for using the current version in the title and using the suggestion in the next sentence as suggested in https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3024#discussion_r1174558164 but using the complete `k6/experimental/webcrypto` form.

Reviewer 2: I'd go with @sniku 's suggestion, but use the full module path indeed 👍🏻 `k6/experimental/webcrypto` 🙇🏻

> This release includes a new experimental `webcrypto` module partially implementing the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification in k6.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This release includes a new `experimental/webcrypto` module partially implementing the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification in k6.
```

```javascript
import { crypto } from 'k6/experimental/webcrypto';

export default async function () {
  const key = await crypto.subtle.generateKey(
    {
      name: 'AES-CBC',
      length: 256,
    },
    true,
    ['encrypt', 'decrypt']
  );

  const encoded = stringToArrayBuffer('Hello, World!');
  const iv = crypto.getRandomValues(new Uint8Array(16));

  const ciphertext = await crypto.subtle.encrypt(
    {
      name: 'AES-CBC',
      iv: iv,
    },
    key,
    encoded
  );

  const plaintext = await crypto.subtle.decrypt(
    {
      name: 'AES-CBC',
      iv: iv,
    },
    key,
    ciphertext
  );

  console.log(
    'deciphered text == original text: ',
    arrayBufferToHex(plaintext) === arrayBufferToHex(encoded)
  );
}

function arrayBufferToHex(buffer) {
  return [...new Uint8Array(buffer)].map((x) => x.toString(16).padStart(2, '0')).join('');
}

function stringToArrayBuffer(str) {
  var buf = new ArrayBuffer(str.length * 2); // 2 bytes for each char
  var bufView = new Uint16Array(buf);
  for (var i = 0, strLen = str.length; i < strLen; i++) {
    bufView[i] = str.charCodeAt(i);
  }
  return buf;

> }

Reviewer 5: Unrelated to the release notes, but we should probably expose these as helper functions, along with their reverse counterparts. They seem generic enough to be part of [jslib utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils/).

```
</details>

> The list of supported APIs and algorithms you could find in the project's [README](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-webcrypto/blob/v0.1.0/README.md#current-state)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The list of supported APIs and algorithms can be found in the project's [README](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-webcrypto/blob/v0.1.0/README.md#current-state)
```

Author: @oleiade, hope you're fine that I use @imiric's version since it avoids using passive voice (I remember Matt always asked us to avoid it if possible)

> The list of supported APIs and algorithms you could find in the project's [README](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-webcrypto/blob/v0.1.0/README.md#current-state)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can see the list of currently supported APIs and algorithms in the project's [README](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-webcrypto/blob/v0.1.0/README.md#current-state).
```

### Add sampling capabilities to the experimental tracing module [#2886](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2886)

> This release adds sampling capabilities to the tracing module. You can now specify a sampling rate with `sampling` option when initializing a Client or in `tracing.InstrumentHTTP` function.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This release adds sampling capabilities to the tracing module. You can now specify a sampling rate with the `sampling` option when initializing a Client, or in the `tracing.InstrumentHTTP` function.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Docs: k6-docs link here
```
We should add the k6-docs link

Author: :+1: Added a sentence in the latest commit

### `browserContext.addCookies` [browser#760](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/760)

> Websites require cookies to help store session details which will be used by the backend to retrieve the state. For example, when a user logins into a website then the backend will store login session details in a cookie, which can be used in future actions performed on the website. For the given example, to speed up the test run, instead of having to first go through the login flow, it would be quicker to set a known valid cookie so that the user can easily test a different feature of the website. With this new feature cookies can be added to a `browserContext` and all new `page`s created from this `browserContext` will have the cookie assigned to them. Thanks @zucchinho for implementing the feature!

Reviewer 5: I don't think we need to explain what cookies are, and how they're used :smile:

So I would shorten this to:
```suggestion
Cookies can now be added to a `BrowserContext` and all new `Page`s created from this context will have the cookie assigned to them. Thanks @zucchinho for implementing this feature!
```

- [#2906](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2906) Added multiple date-time formats for CSV output. Thanks, @Azanul!
- [#2916](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2916) k6 started to show the actual binary's name in the usage help. Thanks, @ariasmn!
- [#2942](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2942) Reference 'k6 cloud' instead of 'Load Impact' in docs and errors.
- [#2985](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2985) Added support of async functions for `setup` and `handleSummary`.
- [#2901](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2901) Added a warning when the number of time series exceeds 100 000, which could lead to potential out-of-memory issues.
- [#2997](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2997) Added a new exit code (`109`), used on a go panic.
- [browser#788](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/788) Updated the browser readme to highlight that it is now a module in k6.
- [browser#803](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/803) Users are now warned if the `browser.close` method is called more than once.
- [browser#820](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/820) Added error handling to wildcard selectors, which cleans up the error output in the terminal.

> - [browser#843](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/843) Removed the build step from github actions. From this release onwards, no new standalone browser binaries will be built and available from the [releases](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/releases) section. The latest version of the browser module will be available in the k6 binary which can be found in the [k6 releases](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases) page.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [browser#843](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/843) Removed the build step from Github Actions. From this release onwards, no new standalone browser binaries will be built and available from the [releases](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/releases) section. The latest version of the browser module will be available in the k6 binary which can be found in the [k6 releases](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases) page.
```

> - [browser#843](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/843) Removed the build step from github actions. From this release onwards, no new standalone browser binaries will be built and available from the [releases](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/releases) section. The latest version of the browser module will be available in the k6 binary which can be found in the [k6 releases](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases) page.

Reviewer 5: Maybe we should mention this in the Breaking changes section? Whoever was relying on the xk6-browser prebuilt binaries will need to be aware that they should use the k6 binary instead.

Reviewer: Yeah, that 's a better place for it: 96db17a4d908d0da7577afe7ed270ce340078931

- [#2928](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2928) Handled a new behavior of `filepath.Join` on windows with go1.20, which could cause issues for the `k6 archive` and `k6 cloud` commands.
- [#2915](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2915) Fixed `check` that could return incorrect values for some cases with many preallocated VUs.
- [#2953](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2953) Fixed active VU reporting by arrival-rate executors.
- [#3006](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3006) `xk6-websockets` updated to v0.2.0 which fixes a lock up of the whole k6.
- [#3023](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3023) Fixed Trend.Max's support of negative values.
- [browser#781](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/781) Fixed mapping of `response` object's function from `jSON` to `json`.
- [browser#779](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/779) Cleared Zombie processes on panic.
- [browser#834](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/834) Fixed `page.close` so that it closes the current page and not the whole browser context.

## Maintenance and internal improvements

### Improved the per-VU buffer pool [#2879](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2879)

> Improved the per-VU buffer pool which should reduce memory usage and improve performance. For some test cases, this change can [reduce memory usage up to 50%](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/794#issuecomment-1406522459).

Reviewer 5: "Improve performance" is not quite right. [The change actually has a slight negative impact on performance.](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2879#issuecomment-1456164331)

```suggestion
Improved the per-VU buffer pool which should greatly reduce memory usage, at a minor expense of higher CPU usage and lower request throughput. In some cases, this change can [reduce memory usage up to 50%](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/794#issuecomment-1406522459).
```

- [#2892](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2892) Added z/OS build flags for IBM z/OS compatibility. Thanks, @msradam!
- [#2833](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2833) Fixed detected memory leaks.
- [#2931](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2931), [#2940](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2940), [#2895](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2895), [#3002](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3002) Updated k6's dependencies. Added `goja`'s generator support.
- [#2947](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2947), [#2943](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2943), [#2946](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2946), [#3009](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3009), [#3012](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3012), [#2894](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2894) Tests' fixes, refactoring, and improvements.
- [#2891](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2891), [#2921](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2921), [#2923](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2923), [#2990](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2990), [#2995](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2995), [#3016](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3016), [#2989](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2989) Linters and formatting fixes.

> - [#3005](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3005) A samples catalog was renamed to examples.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [#3005](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3005) The samples catalog was renamed to examples.
```

> - [browser#776](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/776) Fixed a test for preset flags for chrome on darwin based systems.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [browser#776](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/776) Fixed a test for preset flags for Chrome on macOS.
```

> - [browser#782](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/782), [browser#783](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/783), [browser#826](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/826) Fixed and refactored the mapping.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [browser#782](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/782), [browser#783](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/783), [browser#826](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/826) Fixed and refactored the Go-JS mapping.
```

- [browser#797](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/797), [browser#832](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/832) Fixed multi browser close.
- [browser#796](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/796), [browser#810](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/810) Refactored `browserContext.SetExtraHTTPHeaders` to work with errors and ErrFatal.

> - [browser#798](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/798), [browser#799](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/799) Added more tests for the mapping layer.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [browser#798](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/798), [browser#799](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/799) Added more tests for the Go-JS mapping layer.
```

- [browser#802](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/802) Added a helper to assert on the logs and dump the logs for easier debugging.
- [browser#807](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/807) Fixed incorrect keyboard key code on up/down key presses.

> - [browser#819](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/819) Browser.Launch now transitions to Browser.Connect when a CDP url is provided in an env var.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [browser#819](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/819) `Browser.Launch` now transitions to `Browser.Connect` when a CDP URL is provided in an environment variable.
```

> - [browser#821](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/821), [browser#824](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/824), [browser#830](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/830) Upgraded dependencies and fixed breaking changes.

Reviewer 5: Should we have an Announcements section in the release notes? We sometimes mention topics that were not strictly related to code changes, but are important for the direction of the project. This can likely go at the end, or maybe it would better to place it higher, to ensure people actually read it?

For example, it might be worth mentioning our plans with the new HTTP API, and link to the [design document](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/master/docs/design/018-new-http-api.md).

Let me know if you agree, and I can come up with a short blurb.

Reviewer 5: > Release notes should not serve as milestones.

Agreed. OK then, we can always make announcements on the forum, or somewhere more appropriate.

k6 v0.44.0 is here 🎉! This release includes:

- A new experimental Web Crypto module.
- A sampling option for the experimental tracing module.
- A memory usage improvements.
- Bug fixes and UX improvements.

> Some highlights from the k6-browser module are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some highlights from the browser module are:
```
I think we should be consistent. We use all the combinations (xk6-browser, k6 browser, k6-browser).  I'm for referring to it as just `browser module` now that we merged the extension. `k6 browser` is also fine to me but it sounds not required repetition. Of course, it does not include the links to the extension repository. WDYT? @grafana/k6-browser @olegbespalov

Author: I think there was a discussion around the naming of this somewhere internally, so I believe the browser's team knows better

Reviewer 7: We recently decided to start calling it `k6 browser` instead of `xk6-browser` from our side, but I think from the k6 perspective it makes sense to refer to it as `browser module`, that's also how it's called in the [documentation](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-experimental/browser/):

> The browser module APIs aim for rough compatibility with the [Playwright API for NodeJS](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-playwright).

Author: That means that we could probably use something like:

```diff
-[xk6-browser#790](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/790)
+[browser#790](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/790)
```

when we refer to the PR or the Issue in the browser's repo. And should not use the `xk6-browser` in texting:

```diff
-### Web Vitals are now natively supported by the xk6-browser module
+### Web Vitals are now natively supported by the k6 browser module
```

 Right?

@ankur22 will you take care of it?

Reviewer: Yeah, makes sense. I've renamed from k6-browser/k6 browser to browser module. There are two cases which still feel valid as they reference the xk6-browser repo (update to a readme and the binary). change is in c61f4f03a5dde736872430e3637c4a2d7606fcef

Reviewer: @olegbespalov I think it's worth keeping it as `xk6-browser` since it's a reference to the repo itself, WDYT?

Reviewer: @grafana/k6-browser should we do this change too. I don't have a strong opinion on either:

```suggestion
-[xk6-browser#790](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/790)
+[browser#790](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/790)
```

Reviewer 7: Personally I prefer to change it and stick to `browser` module naming for any reference done to it from `k6`. For me `xk6-*` is a complicate naming, and I think it makes more sense to speak just about `browser`. The fact that the PR link will lead you to the `xk6-browser` repo and the naming mismatch is a minor "issue" for me, if it can be considered an issue :man_shrugging:

Reviewer: Sounds good, changed in 1375a51c50f5b1e883d1b9c348d0a1ed754c00fc

k6 v0.44.0 is here 🎉! This release includes:

> - A new experimental webcrypto module.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- A new experimental Web Crypto module.
```

> - A sampling option for the tracing module.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- A sampling option for the experimental tracing module.
```

> - Support for z/OS Unix.

Reviewer 6: Let not advertise this as we in practice do not support it if for no other reason because `afero` does not with the version we are using currently
```suggestion
```

    ```javascript
    const tails = page.locator("input[value='Bet on tails!']");
    await Promise.all([
      page.waitForNavigation(),
      tails.click(),
    ]);
    ```

- [xk6-browser#817](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/817) We've removed `--no-sandbox` from the default Chrome launch arguments. Now Chrome will launch with a sandbox, which is a more secure way of running the browser. If you are running tests under a `root` user, the browser will no longer launch unless the `--no-sandbox` argument is supplied. You can still pass this flag when launching a new Chrome instance using the `args` parameter on `chromium.launch`:

    ```javascript
    const browser = chromium.launch({
      args: ['no-sandbox'],
    });
    ```

- [xk6-browser#844](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/844) Remove the exported `version` param from the root module. Users should from now on reference the k6 version instead of the k6-browser module version.
- [xk6-browser#838](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/838) Remove first meaningful paint metric. This metric is being deprecated across all the browsers, so we've removed it.

## New features

> ### xk6-webcrypto is now a built-in module [#2884](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3007)

Reviewer 6: Not really certain if we should even mention `xk6-webcrypto`, especially in the heading. 

I don't think many people have noticed it and almost nothing was merged until the last few weeks so :shrug:

Author: Fixed in 0c34d12.

> This release includes [xk6-webcrypto](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-webcrypto) as an experimental module. This is a work in progress implementation of the [WebCrypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification for k6.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This release includes [xk6-webcrypto](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-webcrypto) as an experimental module. This is a work in progress implementation of the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) specification for k6.
```

There is a space ... apperantly

    },
    true,
    ['encrypt', 'decrypt']
  );

  const encoded = stringToArrayBuffer('Hello, World!');
  const iv = crypto.getRandomValues(new Uint8Array(16));

  const ciphertext = await crypto.subtle.encrypt(
    {
      name: 'AES-CBC',
      iv: iv,
    },
    key,
    encoded
  );

  const plaintext = await crypto.subtle.decrypt(
    {
      name: 'AES-CBC',
      iv: iv,
    },
    key,
    ciphertext
  );

  console.log(
    'deciphered text == original text: ',
    arrayBufferToHex(plaintext) === arrayBufferToHex(encoded)
  );
}

function arrayBufferToHex(buffer) {
  return [...new Uint8Array(buffer)].map((x) => x.toString(16).padStart(2, '0')).join('');
}

function stringToArrayBuffer(str) {
  var buf = new ArrayBuffer(str.length * 2); // 2 bytes for each char
  var bufView = new Uint16Array(buf);
  for (var i = 0, strLen = str.length; i < strLen; i++) {
    bufView[i] = str.charCodeAt(i);
  }
  return buf;
}
```
</details>

The list of supported APIs and algorithms you could find in the project's [README](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-webcrypto/blob/v0.1.0/README.md#current-state)

### Compatibility with z/OS Unix [#2892](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2892)

> k6 now supports running on z/OS Unix. This is a new platform that is not officially supported by Golang, but it is based on the same Unix kernel as Linux, so it should work fine. Thanks to @msradam for the contribution!

Reviewer 6: We can probably add this to `internal` but as I said above - afero is not compatible, and we do use it still.

I also cannot compile for zos locally so I can't even check if something else is not blocking us on top of that.

Author: Fixed in 0c34d12.

> ### Add sampling capabilities to the tracing module [#2886](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2886)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### Add sampling capabilities to the experimental tracing module [#2886](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2886)
```

webvital_first_input_delay................: avg=300µs    min=200µs    med=300µs    max=399.99µs p(90)=379.99µs p(95)=389.99µs
webvital_first_input_delay_good...........: 2       0.646663/s
webvital_interaction_to_next_paint........: avg=16ms     min=16ms     med=16ms     max=16ms     p(90)=16ms     p(95)=16ms
webvital_interaction_to_next_paint_good...: 1       0.323332/s
webvital_largest_content_paint............: avg=303.6ms  min=141.1ms  med=303.6ms  max=466.1ms  p(90)=433.6ms  p(95)=449.85ms
webvital_largest_content_paint_good.......: 2       0.646663/s
webvital_time_to_first_byte...............: avg=205.23ms min=104.79ms med=188.39ms max=322.5ms  p(90)=295.67ms p(95)=309.08ms
webvital_time_to_first_byte_good..........: 3       0.969995/s
```

You may have noticed other metrics in there too. We rely on the [web-vitals](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web-vitals) JS library which exposes a few more metrics, so we've left them in for you to experiment with.

You will no longer see `browser_first_contentful_paint` in the summary, and instead you can work with `webvital_first_contentful_paint`.

### UX improvements and enhancements

> - [#2906](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2906). Added multiple date-time formats other for CSV output. Thanks, @Azanul!

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [#2906](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2906). Added multiple date-time formats for CSV output. Thanks, @Azanul!
```

not sure if you wanted to explain somethign more

> - [#2916](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2916). k6 started to show an actual binary's name in the usage help. Thanks, @ariasmn!

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [#2916](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2916). k6 started to show the actual binary's name in the usage help. Thanks, @ariasmn!
```

- [#2942](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2942). Reference 'k6 cloud' instead of 'Load Impact' in docs and errors.
- [#2985](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2985). Added support of async functions for `setup` and `handleSummary`.

> - [#2901](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2901). Added a warning when the number of time series exceeds 100000, which could lead to potential out-of-memory issues.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [#2901](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2901). Added a warning when the number of time series exceeds 100 000, which could lead to potential out-of-memory issues.
```

> - [#2997](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2997). Added a new exit code (`109`), which signals about go panic.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [#2997](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2997). Added a new exit code (`109`), used on a go panic.
```

- [xk6-browser#820](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/820) Add error handling to wildcard selectors, which cleans up the error output in the terminal.
- [xk6-browser#843](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/843) Remove the build step from github actions. From this release onwards, no new standalone xk6-browser binaries will be built and available from the [releases](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/releases) section. The latest version of the xk6-browser module will be available in the k6 binary which can be found [here](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases).
- [xk6-browser#848](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/848) Allow multiple k6 instances to connect to one browser to run concurrent tests. This update empowers high-concurrency k6 browser testing with multiple VUs and instances. Using the new `browserType.Connect` API, users can now connect to an existing browser instance and execute concurrent tests, which was not possible previously.

## Bug fixes

- [#2984](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2984). Fixed wrongly assigned HTTP `POST` and `PUT` methods for the `tracing.instrumentHTTP`. Thanks, @marcin-maciej-seweryn!

> - [#2928](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2928). Handled a new behavior of `filepath.Join` on windows go1.20, which could cause issues for the `k6 archive` command.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [#2928](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2928). Handled a new behavior of `filepath.Join` on windows with go1.20, which could cause issues for the `k6 archive` and `k6 cloud` commands.
```

- [#2915](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2915). Fixed `check` that could return incorrect values for some cases with many preallocated VUs.
- [#2953](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2953). Fixed active VU reporting by arrival-rate executors.

> - [#2833](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2833). Fixed detected memory leaks.

Reviewer 6: I am for this to be moved to internal. IIRC all of those were goroutines that we keep around the whole execution and some of them were not being shutdown at the end. 

This in no way will be a memory leak given the current usage of k6

Author: Fixed in 0c34d12.

> - [#3006](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3006). `xk6-websockets` updated to v0.2.0 which fixes a memory leak.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [#3006](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3006). `xk6-websockets` updated to v0.2.0 which fixes a lock up of the whole k6.
```

- [xk6-browser#781](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/781) Fix mapping of `response` object's function from `jSON` to `json`.
- [xk6-browser#779](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/779) Clear Zombie processes on panic.
- [xk6-browser#834](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/834) Fix `page.close` so that it closes the current page and not the whole browser context.

## Maintenance and internal improvements

> - [#2879](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2879). Improved the per-VU buffer pool which should reduce memory usage and improve performance. Thanks, @davidpst!

Reviewer 6: This likely should be higher and as part of the more highlighted changes. 

This likely means that a lot more people will now have pretty nice improvement in resource utilization.

Author: Fixed in 0c34d12.

- [#2931](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2931), [#2940](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2940), [#2895](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2895), [#3002](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3002). Updated k6's dependencies. Added `goja`'s generator support.
- [#2947](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2947), [#2943](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2943), [#2946](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2946), [#3009](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3009), [#3012](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3012), [#2894](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2894). Tests' fixes, refactoring, and improvements.
- [#2891](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2891), [#2921](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2921), [#2923](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2923), [#2990](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2990), [#2995](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2995), [#3016](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3016), [#2989](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2989). Linters and formatting fixes.
- [#3005](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3005). A samples catalog was renamed to examples.

> - [xk6-browser#776](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/776) Fix test for preset flags for chrome on darwin based systems.

Author: @ankur22 let's try to keep the list of changes shorter to help our users detect what is actually important in the release. For example, if the PR is purely about the testing, we could combine under the `Tests' fixes, refactoring, and improvements.`. What do you think?

Reviewer: The xk6-browser changes that are placed under "Other minor changes in this release" were meant to go in "Maintenance and internal improvements", if i moved there, would that be ok?

Author: They are still under the headline `## Maintenance and internal improvements`.

The line `Other minor changes in this release` appears since we highlighted `### Improved the per-VU buffer pool`, which has a bigger impact than the other points from the list. 

If it's not clear maybe we could change the sentence to `Other minor maintenance and internal improvements in the release`. WDYT?

Author: You could open the preview of the file with the link https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/0c34d12ad0d9f99ef6df3d3456faf7b9edc7352c/release%20notes/v0.44.0.md

Reviewer: I've tried to consolidate some of these in this commit: 458dfb713fe0361eb275846c4feebc3e3b24b9eb

- [xk6-browser#782](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/782) Refactor mapping of "special" functions to work with a `map`.
- [xk6-browser#783](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/783) Fix mapping by unmapping internal methods.
- [xk6-browser#797](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/797) Fix for multi browser close vu was missing in Context.
- [xk6-browser#796](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/796) Return an error from `browserContext.SetExtraHTTPHeaders` and handle panic in mapping layer.
- [xk6-browser#798](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/798) Add locator mapping test.
- [xk6-browser#799](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/799) Add a testing functionality to detect redundant mappings.
- [xk6-browser#802](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/802) Add assert log contains and log dump helpers.
- [xk6-browser#807](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/807) Fix incorrect keyboard key code on up/down key press.
- [xk6-browser#810](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/810) Rename ErrInternal to ErrFatal and use abort/interrupt.

> - [xk6-browser#821](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/821) Upgrade to k6 v0.43.1.

Author: @ankur22 it's probably redundant, or we could put this under the `Updated k6's dependencies.` (maybe just adjust naming to `Updated dependencies.`)

Reviewer: I've made the change: https://github.com/grafana/k6/commit/458dfb713fe0361eb275846c4feebc3e3b24b9eb

```javascript
const context = browser.newContext()
context.addCookies([{name: 'myCookie', value: 'hello world', url: 'https://test.k6.io'}])
const page = context.newPage()
```

### `browserType.Connect` [xk6-browser#800](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/800)

There are cases where the user may want to connect to a remote browser instance where they have more control over the browser lifecycle, such as when working in a resource bound environment. This feature enables users to connect to a manually started Chrome/Chromium browser instance. It's a simple case of replacing `browser.launch` with `browser.connect` and supplying the CDP url as the first argument. Not all `launch` options will work with `connect` since the browser instance should already have started prior to working with `connect`. Since we assume that the user had decided to take ownership of starting the browser, we have made `browser.close` a NOOP when working with `browser.connect`, so the user will need to close the browser themselves.

```javascript
const browser = chromium.connect('ws://127.0.0.1:1234/devtools/browser/e3bb7e53-ad0f-46f3-ae89-a8416868f4ce')
const page = browser.newPage();
```

> ### Web Vitals are now natively supported by the xk6-browser module [xk6-browser#836](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/836) [xk6-browser#847](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/847)

Reviewer 8: We have an open [PR](https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/1131) to update the k6 docs to discuss web vitals in more detail. Do you think we should reference this here too? See https://mdr-ci.staging.k6.io/docs/refs/pull/1131/merge/using-k6-browser/browser-metrics/

We probably have to merge the docs changes first.

Reviewer: I think that's a good idea. Do you know what the final url will be? The only issue i see is if this page is moved in the future.

Reviewer 8: The URL will be similar https://k6.io/docs/using-k6-browser/browser-metrics/, but the content is currently different.

Reviewer 6: @mdcruz when is this expected to be released?

Reviewer 8: @mstoykov It is ready to be merged :) So I can release it at the same time, maybe? Or before?

Author: As far as I remember, an order of things is that we should first do the "archive" of the docs first (but we still do that at the last moment), then merge docs' PRs for the new functionality and do the docs release, we could be still before issuing the k6's release.

Reviewer 6: So we can change the url to the new one and will be correct in a little while :P

Reviewer: I've updated it, please see this commit: 9d0e54ad409613e830b59414a2580495512d3810
